feat(spinner): initial design guidance (#37)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1028-spinner-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-11
updated: 2024-10-22
---

# Spinner Design Guidance

> A [spinner](https://clarity.design/documentation/spinner) component is a visual indicator of an ongoing, user-initiated process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [spinner](https://clarity.design/documentation/spinner) component visually indicates an ongoing, user-initiated process, signaling to users that the system is working and they should wait.
```

## Guidance

> - **Must** use page spinners for tracking the progress of an operation related to an entire page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams must use page spinners to track the progress of operations that affect the entire page, ensuring users understand that the page is temporarily unavailable.
```

> - **Must** use inline spinners for tracking the progress of an operation related to a specific component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams must use inline spinners to track the progress of operations related to specific components, ensuring users know which part of the interface is being processed.
```

> - **Must** place the spinner where you want to focus the user’s attention when the process completes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** place the spinner where the user’s attention should be directed once the process is complete, ensuring a smooth transition and clear feedback.
```

> - **Should** provide a brief description of the process, for example, “loading …”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** provide a brief description of the process, such as “Loading…”, to give users context about what is happening.
```

> - **May** use progress bar as an alternative to spinner, if more space is availble. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **May** use progress bar as an alternative to spinner, if more space is available.
```

I think this should something about using progress bars is the progress status is known instead of indeterminate. cc:@jbusta5

Reviewer: what about: 

Design teams **May** use a progress bar as an alternative to a spinner if more space is available. Progress bars are preferable when the progress status is known, while spinners are better suited for indeterminate states.

@kevinbuhmann
